{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2512
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\info
{\author yoav}}\paperw11905\paperh16837\margl720\margr720\margb720\margt720\vieww12220\viewh13300\viewkind1\viewscale142
\hyphauto1\hyphfactor90
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sl-240\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 A faithful reproduction of the traditional Tarot \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sl-240\sb120\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 based on the standard deck printed by\
NICHOLAS CONVER, 1760\
restored and adapted by\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sl-240\sb60\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 YOAV BEN-DOV, 2010\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sl-240\sb60\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sl-240\sb60\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
This booklet is intended to serve as a quick reference for reading the CBD Tarot de Marseille cards. It is based on the book "
\f1\b Tarot - the Open Reading
\f0\b0 " by Yoav Ben-Dov.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Some parts of the book, additional materials to read and download, updates, and information about the book and the cards appear at the website:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qc\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 www.cbdtarot.com\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 Table of Contents\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\rtlpar\qr\partightenfactor0

\f3\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li4320\ri-2\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Opening the Deck\
Tarot de Marseille\
CBD Tarot de Marseille\
The Deck Structure\
Identifying the Cards\
Shuffling the Deck\
Reading the Cards\
Minor Suit Domains\
Aces and Court Cards\
Quick Interpretations
\f3\fs20 :
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li5103\ri-2\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Major Suit\
Coins\
Cups\
Wands\
Swords\
\pard\pardeftab720\li4320\ri-2\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The Blank Card\page \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\rtlpar\qr\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Opening the Deck\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 When first opening the inner wrapping of the cards, it is recommended not to do it carelessly, but in a serene and calm setting and in a focused mind set.\
To create a first encounter with a clear view of the various card types, the initial ordering of the cards in the CBD deck is different than the usual. Before shuffling the deck, you are invited to go over all the cards in the original order.\
If you are going to use the cards for actual reading, a common practice is to take them out of the original mass-produced tuckbox, and keep them in a cloth wrapping, a bag and/or a box of your own choice. \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Tarot de Marseille\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 According to current historical research, Tarot cards originated in northern Italy around the 14th century. In the 17th-18th centuries card makers in France, and particularly in the city of Marseille, adopted a common model for the Tarot cards. This model, which evolved directly from the earliest Tarot decks, became the standard of the traditional Tarot. Widely known as the "Tarot de Marseille", it served as a basis for mystical interpretations of the Tarot symbols, and as the original inspiration for new decks which became popular during the 20th century.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\
CBD Tarot de Marseille\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Among the different Tarot decks printed in Marseille, the one which became most influential and best appreciated was published in 1760 by Nicholas Conver. The 
\f1\b CBD Tarot de Marseille
\f0\b0  (Conver - Ben Dov) was restored from copies of several printings of the Conver deck. The lines were copied on paper by the illustrator Leela Ganin using an ink nib. The drawing were scanned, cleaned, titled and colored by the graphic designer Nir Matarasso. Then I (YB) re-shaped the lines and colored areas, comparing them with scans of the original cards. The cards were finally printed in 2011 by Cartamundi in Turnhout, Belgium.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 The Deck Structure\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 A deck of Tarot cards contains 78 cards. These can be divided into two parts. The first part is called 
\f1\b the major suit
\f0\b0 . It consists of 22 cards with elaborate illustrations. The major suit cards are numbered consecutively, and have a specific name for each one. \
The remaining 56 cards are further divided into four suits. These are called 
\f1\b the minor suits
\f0\b0 , and have a simpler design than the 22 majors. Each minor suit consists of 14 cards: one 
\f1\b ace card
\f0\b0 , nine 
\f1\b number cards
\f0\b0  (numbered 2 to 10), and four 
\f1\b court cards
\f0\b0 : page, knight, queen and king.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \page \
Identifying the Cards\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 To identify the different cards, you can either look at their images on the 
\f1\b cbdtarot.com
\f0\b0  website, or use the following guidelines:\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Major suit:
\f0\b0  The illustrations are rich in symbolic detail. Each card carries a title and a Roman numeral (in long notation, so that 9 is VIIII and not IX). Two exceptions are card number 13 with no title, and The Fool card with no number. English names for the major suit cards are listed in the quick interpretations section.\

\f1\b Minor suits
\f0\b0 : Each minor suit is linked with a symbolic object which appears on all its cards. The objects are: 
\f1\b coins
\f0\b0 ,
\f1\b  wands
\f0\b0 ,
\f1\b  cups
\f0\b0 ,
\f1\b  
\f0\b0 and
\f1\b  swords
\f0\b0 .\
The 
\f1\b coins
\f0\b0  are depicted as decorated circles. The 
\f1\b cups
\f0\b0  are goblets with hexagonal bases. The coins and the cups are colored yellow with small areas in red.\
The 
\f1\b wands
\f0\b0  are depicted either as green clubs, or as straight rods. The 
\f1\b swords
\f0\b0   are either regular (straight) swords with red or light blue blades, or rounded arches. \
The rod-shaped wands and the rounded swords appear only in the number cards. They are shown  as narrow stripes in red, light blue and black, with blades at both tips. The 
\f1\b wands
\f0\b0  stripes are 
\f1\b straight
\f0\b0  and cross over at the middle of the card. The 
\f1\b swords
\f0\b0  stripes are 
\f1\b rounded
\f0\b0  and cross over at two points \'96 at the top of the card and at the bottom. \
The 
\f1\b ace
\f0\b0  card of each minor suit shows a big and detailed image of the suit symbol, with no title or number.\
The four 
\f1\b court cards
\f0\b0  carry titles identifying their ranks: a 
\f1\b page
\f0\b0  (titled 
\fs20 VALET)
\fs24 , a 
\f1\b knight
\f0\b0  (
\fs20 CAVALIER
\fs24 ), a 
\f1\b queen
\f0\b0  (
\fs20 REYNE
\fs24 ), and a 
\f1\b king
\f0\b0  (
\fs20 ROY
\fs24 ). The titles also indicate the suit: 
\f1\b coins
\f0\b0  (
\fs20 DENIERS
\fs24 ), 
\f1\b wands
\f0\b0  (
\fs20 BATON
\fs24 ), 
\f1\b cups
\f0\b0  (
\fs20 COUPE
\fs24 ), 
\f1\b swords
\f0\b0  (
\fs20 EPEE
\fs24 ).\
Each 
\f1\b number card
\f0\b0  shows the corresponding number of suit symbol icons, geometrically arranged and usually with floral decorations around. The number cards of three suits, excepting the Coins, also have their numbers written on both sides.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Shuffling the Deck\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Each reader has his own favorite way of shuffling, and no single way fits all. My way of doing it is to take the cards out of their box, and to shuffle them gently face-down while I listen to the querent\'92s story. Then I hand the cards to the querent, still face-down, and ask him to shuffle the cards himself. Once this is done, the querent returns the cards to me still face-down. One by one I take the first cards from the back of the deck (that is, from the top side of the face-down pack), and arrange them on the table in the spread layout.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \page \
Reading the Cards\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 For almost all the types of queries, you can use a basic spread of three cards out of the 22 of the major suit. After shuffling the deck, the three cards are laid down in a row from left to right, and then read as a story which usually advances in this direction.\
At a later stage, when you get to know them better, you may want to add the minor suit cards. This can be done gradually: first the aces, then the court cards, and finally the number cards which are the most challenging to study in detail.\
To use the minor cards in a reading, you can extend the basic spread to a row with 7 cards, again from left to right. \
An alternative method is to use the minor cards as a background layer for the basic 3-card spread. To do this, you start with the first (left) position and pile the minor cards on top of each other as they appear out of the shuffled deck. You go on covering each card with the next one until a major card shows up. Then you pass to the second (center) position and do the same, and then to the third (right) position. Finally, you see 3 major cards that you read as a basic spread. Under each one of these major cards there is a pile of minor cards. These are read as background or additional information for the major card which covers them.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Minor Suit Domains\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Each minor suit has its own specific character and domain of action. When cards of a specific suit appear in a reading, they can represent either an issue arising in its corresponding domain, or an attitude typical of its character.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Coins: body\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 Material and physical, practical and conservative.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Wands: desire\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 Passionate, outgoing, energetic, creative, conflictive.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Cups: Emotion\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 Sentimental, romantic, social, spiritual.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Swords: Intellect\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0 \cf0 Rational and verbal, decisive, aggressive.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Aces and Court Cards\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 An ace card
\f0\b0  expresses the beginning of a process or a new initiative. Also, an attitude or a significant factor expressing the character of the suit. \

\f1\b A page
\f0\b0  can represent a person acting in a new and unknown field, or irresponsibility and immaturity.\

\f1\b A knight
\f0\b0  can symbolize a person advancing towards a goal, or being in service.\

\f1\b A queen
\f0\b0  can express achievements and realization, solidness and stability, conservatism and defensiveness.\

\f1\b A king
\f0\b0  can express power and control, a phase of maturity and experience, and readiness to move in a new direction.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \page Quick Interpretations\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 The following list of interpretations may be helpful as a quick reference in reading. If nothing comes to mind when you look at the card, you can use it as a starting point. But it should not limit you from finding your own meanings by looking at the card illustrations and interpreting them as a symbolic story.\
To use inverse meanings, you should turn some of the cards around while shuffling them.  Many readers prefer to ignore card inversion. In such a case the \'93inverse\'94 interpretations can be regarded as negative aspects of the cards, and integrated with the positive aspects. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sa120\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 The Major Suit\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Card 1 (
\fs20 I
\fs24 )
\fs20  LE BATELEUR
\fs24  \'96 The Magician
\f0\b0 : The start of something. Beginner\'92s luck. Having various tools and means at our disposal. Use of supernatural forces. Creating reality with mind power. Training and acquisition of practical skills. Improvisation. Display or show for other people. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  create a new reality.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Trickery, sleight of hand, cheating. Showing off, pretending. Lack of self-awareness about body, sexuality, or basic motives. Near miss due to inexperience or inaccuracy.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 2 (
\fs20 II
\fs24 )
\fs20  LA PAPESSE
\fs24  \'96 The Popess
\f0\b0 : Wisdom combining intellect and intuition. A spiritual mother. A woman hiding her strengths in a world of men. Modesty. Secrets, something hidden, mystery. Getting a hint of something which remains largely unknown. Impossible to give a definite answer now. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  know how to set boundaries.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Need to hide our true nature behind the conventions of normal society. Conservative approach to sex and the body. Emotional blockage.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 3 (
\fs20 III
\fs24 )
\fs20  L\'92IMPERATRICE 
\fs24 \'96 The Empress
\f0\b0 : Abundance, growth, productivity. Natural or human touch within an artificial framework. Emotional intelligence. Protection and care. Motherhood. A powerful female figure. Strong feminine identity. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  act from the guts.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Impulsive behavior, someone difficult to reason with. Over-protectiveness, excessive involvement in the life of others. Problems with a strong mother figure.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 4 (
\fs20 IIII
\fs24 )
\fs20  L\'92EMPEREUR 
\fs24 \'96 The Emperor
\f0\b0 : Practical and material achievements. Matters relating to the workplace or source of income. Authority and control, a commanding position. A protective father figure, patron or sponsor. Assertiveness. Military affairs. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  show leadership and responsibility.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Belligerence, violence, trying to solve things by brute force. Dictatorship. Possibility of sexual abuse. Difficulty in coping with a dominant father figure. Denial and hiding of inner weaknesses.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 5 (
\fs20 V
\fs24 )
\fs20  LE PAPE 
\fs24 \'96 The Pope
\f0\b0 : Teacher, instructor, or counselor. Education and knowledge, academic expertise. Organized religion, conventional medicine or psychology. Spiritual father. Consultation or treatment by a specialist. Marriage.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  respect knowledge and education.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Excessive adhesion to conventions and outdated norms. Bureaucracy, an oppressive establishment. Hypocrisy, discrimination. Divorce.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 6 (
\fs20 VI
\fs24 )
\fs20  L\'92AMOVREVX
\fs24  \'96 The Lover
\f0\b0 : Love, amorous relationship. Emotional entanglement. Need to make a choice, or to disengage oneself from past influences. Inclinations of the heart correspond to the will of heaven. Small steps actually taken are the visible signs of inner desire. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  follow the path of the heart.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Complex relationship between several people, e.g., a romantic triangle or a tension between mother and wife. Hesitation, quandary. Confusion as to one\'92s own feeling and will.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 7 (
\fs20 VII
\fs24 )
\fs20  LE CHARIOT
\fs24  \'96 The Chariot
\f0\b0 : Victory or an achievement putting the querent in a strong and protected position. Ambition, energy, motivation to move forward. Public honor. Power and high status.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  dare and win.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Inner weakness hidden behind external show-off. Arrogance, vanity. Over-protectiveness, emotional closure. Confusion about one\'92s goals. Losing the simple touch with people and reality.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 8 (
\fs20 VIII
\fs24 )
\fs20  LA JUSTICE 
\fs24 \'96 Justice
\f0\b0 : Law and order, legal and court issues. A fair and balanced judgment. A developed conscience. Rationality, reasoning by clear rules and common norms. Touch of grace and humanity beyond the objective considerations.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  act with reason and by the accepted norms.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Petty accountability, a critical and judgmental attitude, guilt feelings. Repressive control of self and of others. Negative ideas blocking change and advance.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 9 (
\fs20 VIIII
\fs24 )
\fs20  L\'92HERMITE
\fs24  \'96 The Hermit
\f0\b0 : A quest for truth or for spiritual understanding. Concentrating on a clear purpose. Caution, careful examination. Self-privation for the sake of a meaningful cause. Loyalty to principles, strong faith.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  look for the essence of things.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  A closed and reclusive attitude. Isolation, loneliness. Fixed ideas. Excessive caution and suspicion, a critical approach looking for defects. Hidden and denied desires.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 10 (
\fs20 X
\fs24 )
\fs20  L\'92A ROVE DE FORTVNE
\fs24  \'96 The Wheel of Fortune
\f0\b0 : Change in circumstances and position. A rise after a fall. Gambling, putting faith in capricious luck. Life cycles, closure of circles. Adapting to the routine of everyday life. A hint to previous incarnations.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  accept life\'92s ups and downs.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  A decline after a period of rising. Danger lurks at the summit. Moving in a closed circle. Capricious mood changes. Feeling powerless to affect one\'92s situation.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 11 (
\fs20 XI
\fs24 )
\fs20  LA FORCE 
\fs24 \'96 The Force
\f0\b0 : Power and courage to face challenges. Controlled expression of creative urges, drives and desires. Mobilization of inner resources towards a common goal. Taking risks.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  take control of yourself.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Need to keep things under control leads to constant tensions. A risk of losing one\'92s grip. Internal conflicts and unrealistic assessment of one\'92s own forces may lead to failure.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 12 (
\fs20 XII
\fs24 )
\fs20  LE PENDU 
\fs24 \'96 The Hanged Man
\f0\b0 : Seeing things from a unique point of view. Enduring difficulties for a worthy cause. A period of deep self examination. Passivity, acceptance of reality even if it is the opposite of what one expects.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  look at things from the opposite perspective.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Isolation. Emotional stance of a victim. Inability to act. Denying one\'92s own unique qualities, striving to be \'93normal\'94 at all costs. Living in one\'92s private and imaginary reality.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 13 (
\fs20 XIII
\fs24 )
\fs20  
\f0\b0\fs24 (untitled): The end of something whose time has come. Cutting off past influences or attachment to dominant figures. Giving up the superfluous and keeping only the essential. Disintegration of the old makes room for the new.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  give up what is over.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Difficulty in coping with loss or change. Temporary difficulties, a trying challenge. Disintegration. Realization of a painful truth. Does not predict future death, but may reflect anxiety about dying or mourning over a loss which has already happened.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 14 (
\fs20 XIIII
\fs24 )
\fs20  TEMPER-ANCE 
\fs24 \'96 Temperance
\f0\b0 : Reconciliation, compromise, relaxation of tensions. Integration of opposites. Ability to do the seemingly impossible. A slow process of distillation and improvement. Patience, perseverance. Self-improvement.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  find the golden mean.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Going back and forth without making real progress. Losing patience with a lengthy process. Emotional preoccupation with oneself, pushing away others who might come to help.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 15 (
\fs20 XV
\fs24 )
\fs20  LE DIABLE 
\fs24 \'96 The Devil
\f0\b0 : A burst of creativity. Paradoxes and contradictions. Irony and mocking of common norms. Acting from desires, passions and impulses. Moving on from a past family trauma.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  express passion and desire.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Temptation, attraction to the dark and forbidden. Exploitation, egotism, domination. Compulsive self-gratification. Senseless behavior has its price. Difficulty in detaching oneself from an unhealthy bond.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 16 (
\fs20 XVI
\fs24 )
\fs20  LA MAISON DIEV 
\fs24  \'96 The Tower
\f0\b0 : Breaking up of solid structures. Getting free from confinement. Sudden breakthrough after long preparations. Sparkling sexual encounter. Success lies in simplicity and modesty.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  return to the solid ground of reality.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Shock, collapse of projects or trusted structures. A fall from an apparently solid and secure position. Chaos, confusion, difficulty in understanding what is going on. Vanity and pride lead to failure.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 17 (
\fs20 XVII
\fs24 )
\fs20  LETOILLE 
\fs24 \'96 The Star
\f0\b0 : Openness, simplicity, return to nature. Purity, honesty. Showing yourself \'93as you are,\'94 accepting one\'92s body and desires. Generosity. Luck from heaven. Intuitive feeling of guidance or energy coming from a higher plane.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  flow from a pure source.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Naive optimism and wishful-thinking. Exposing oneself to danger or abuse. Difficulty in setting proper boundaries. Squandering, wastefulness.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 18 (
\fs20 XVIII
\fs24 )
\fs20  LA LUNE 
\fs24 \'96 The Moon
\f0\b0 : Deep emotions, perhaps related to a mother or feminine figure. A different experience of reality. Longing for the unreachable. Finding one\'92s hidden strengths. Occupation with the remote past. A hidden treasure.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  don\'92t be afraid to go deep down.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Vague and disturbing feelings. Emotional difficulties, a period of depression. Danger lurking under the surface. Retreat, the road ahead is hard to find.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 19 (
\fs20 XVIIII
\fs24 )
\fs20  LE SOLEIL
\fs24  \'96 The Sun
\f0\b0 : Light and warmth, abundance, blessings. Pleasant feeling, emotional or physical healing. Partnership, trust, sharing, brotherhood. Human touch. An ideal father figure. Matters relating to children. Setting limits in a moderate and non-oppressive way.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  find suitable partners.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Living in a limited space, difficulty to face reality \'93in the open.\'94 Immaturity, dependence on others. Someone or something too intense and energetic to feel comfortable with. An absent father.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 20 (
\fs20 XX
\fs24 )
\fs20  LE JUGEMENT 
\fs24 \'96 Judgment
\f0\b0 : Revelation, enlightenment, a new understanding. A turning point in a therapy process. Healing of a family relationship. Disclosure, secrets revealed, publicity. Birth of a baby or of a new thing.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  awaken to spiritual reality.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Revelation of something that should have been kept hidden. Lack of privacy. Unpleasant realization. Problems related to child-parent relations. Too much noise and drama.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Card 21 (
\fs20 XXI
\fs24 )
\fs20  LE MONDE 
\fs24 \'96 The World
\f0\b0 : Completion of a process. Balanced activity and achievements in various domains. Contact with far places. Harmony and correspondence between different planes. Pregnancy, something new is about to be born. The Dance of Life.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  everything is perfect as it is.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Life in a bubble, difficulty in sharing your world with others. Disconnection of inner feelings from external life. Preoccupation with oneself, idealized self-image, inability to move forward.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 The Fool 
\f0\b0 (unnumbered)
\f1\b\fs20  LE MAT
\f0\b0\fs24 : Freedom from conventions and norms. Something or someone unique and exceptional. Options kept open. Giving up control, spontaneity. Uncertainty, attention to the here and now. Going on a trip.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Message:
\f0\i0  keep on the move.\

\f4\i Inverse:
\f0\i0  Difficulty in choosing and committing oneself to something stable. Restlessness. Lack of purpose. Getting lost. Foolish behavior. Eccentricity, lack of acceptance by the social environment. Difficulty in planning ahead. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sa120\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Coins\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Ace of Coins
\f0\b0 : A good start in material things. Financial and physical stability. A practical perspective. A significant sum of money. Utilitarian approach. Greed. Something basic and unsophisticated.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 2 of Coins
\f0\b0 : Duality. Two options or two elements. Collaborating while keeping distance. A winding road, advancing in complex ways. Recognition and acknowledgment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 3 of Coins
\f0\b0 : Product. A partnership or an alliance bears fruit. First results of a project. Good prospects.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Disappointment, a partnership or a project does not bear the expected fruits.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 4 of Coins
\f0\b0 : Stability. Solid material assets. Tradition, reputation and honor. Time-tested reliability. Established social institutions.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Conservatism, clinging to old and outdated patterns.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 5 of Coins
\f0\b0 : Disruption. Something new appears and destabilizes existing structures. A new element gets attention, but also awakens resistance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \page \
6 of Coins
\f0\b0 : Expansion. Abundance of resources and possible ways to advance. A positive outlook, success. A good balance between stability and movement.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 7 of Coins
\f0\b0 : Acceptance. Something new is well received. Help and protection. Integrating into a system without losing one\'92s individuality.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Lack of independence, need to rely on help and acceptance from others.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
8 of Coins
\f0\b0 : Uniformity. A mechanical structure. Practical considerations prove efficient, but lack a human touch. Routine work. A slow and patient advance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 9 of Coins
\f0\b0 : Motivation. Carving a niche for oneself in an existing system. Ambition. Endurance and independent thinking bear long-term fruits.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 10 of Coins
\f0\b0 : Abundance. Intensive activity in practical affairs. Material success and achievements. Some may be getting more than others.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
Page of Coins
\f0\b0 : A practical endeavor. Untapped potentials are within reach. Tangible success at the beginning. A solid material base for further advancement.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  hesitation, lack of clear purpose. Thinking in terms of past achievements misses present opportunities.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Knight of Coins
\f0\b0 : Advancement in a practical direction. A productive expression of creativity. A clear goal in sight.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Constant pursuit of money, without reaching material stability. Passions and desires may interfere with practical plans.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Queen of Coins
\f0\b0 : Tangible assets, material and personal stability, a sober and realistic vision. Looking at things from a practical and pragmatic perspective.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Conservatism, resistance to change, aiming only to preserve the existing assets. Looking at things only from the material perspective.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 King of Coins
\f0\b0 : Confidence and security, a cautious but optimistic vision. Looking for new achievements while holding existing assets secure.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Dissatisfaction with what one already has. Disregard of the good things in the present situation. A limited outlook.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sa120\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Cups\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Ace of Cups
\f0\b0 : The beginning of a love relationship. Expression of warm feelings. Romantic longing for something extraordinary. Emotional and spiritual growth.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Emotional dryness, feeling oneself empty. Avoidance of intimacy, negative feelings, heartbreak.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 2 of Cups
\f0\b0 : Partnership. A romantic relationship or a close personal alliance. Interpersonal dynamics based on social norms. Passion in a love relationship, which may turn against itself.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  A crisis in a couple relationship, disappointment with someone close to you.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 3 of Cups
\f0\b0 : Birth. Something new brings joy and happiness. Caring for a child. Issues of child-parent relations. A common project motivated by feelings and not only by interests.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Problems in relations with one\'92s parents, or with one\'92s child. A strong alliance of two persons leaves a third one outside.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 4 of Cups
\f0\b0 : Family. A collective of people (family, community etc.) with a history and a sense of belonging. Commitment to a group, at the price of giving up personal interests.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Problems and discord in the family or in a long-lasting community. A fixed social structure which doesn\'92t allow for adaptation or flexibility.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 5 of Cups
\f0\b0 : Links. Popularity, relations with many people. Becoming the center of attention in a group. Relying on connections with other people to advance oneself or to overcome difficulties.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Excessive preoccupation with social activity. Losing oneself in multiple superficial connections. Cultivating virtual instead of real contacts.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 6 of Cups
\f0\b0 : Continuity. A long-term relationship. Repetition between different generations in the family. A stable personal alliance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Monotony, tedious repetition. Falling time and again into the same emotional traps.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 7 of Cups
\f0\b0 : Individuality. A single person finding his place in a group. Contact with people in high positions. Exceptional qualities are appreciated.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Problems of integration in a group or an organization. Being part of a collective, but feeling isolated and estranged.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 8 of Cups
\f0\b0 : Involvement. Developing personal relationships within a group. A favorable human-relations environment. A feast or a family event.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Interference of the environment in a couple\'92s relationships. Pressures from one\'92s family in romantic or personal matters.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 9 of Cups
\f0\b0 : Collectivity. A group or organization working harmoniously with everyone finding his proper place. Accepting one\'92s role in a social environment. Happiness, wishes coming true.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  A confusing social situation, difficulty in situating oneself within a complex environment.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 10 of Cups
\f0\b0 : Leadership. A person with special qualities receives appreciation and high status. Assuming responsibility for others. Maintaining a superior position.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  A fallen leader, loss of popularity. Disappointment because of ingratitude by people one has helped.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Page of Cups
\f0\b0 : First and unsure steps in a romantic endeavor. Shyness. Sincere intentions. Trying to figure out one\'92s feelings.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Over-absorption in one\'92s personal feelings, losing contact with others. Sloppiness in practical affairs.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Knight of Cups
\f0\b0 : A romantic gesture, offering one\'92s heart, courting. Openness, sincerity, a simple heart. A potential lover may appear.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Superficial and unstable feelings. An over-optimistic but unrealistic attitude. An overt display of shallow or insincere feelings. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
Queen of Cups
\f0\b0 : A rich inner world which is kept hidden. Guarding one\'92s privacy or valuable assets. Strong feelings held under control.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Closure, defensiveness. Distrust of others due to negative past experiences. Hiding one\'92s emotions under guise of rational criticism.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 King of Cups
\f0\b0 : Emotional maturity, optimism, ability to overcome past injuries and look ahead. Openness to new things, but with prudence and caution. Closing one\'92s ear to voices from the past.\
Inverse
\f4\i :
\f0\i0  Difficulty in overcoming an emotional blow. A pessimistic outlook caused by negative past experiences. \

\f1\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sa120\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 Wands\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Ace of Wands
\f0\b0 : Creative momentum. Active sexuality. Strong impulses, energy and drive. Life force. Beginning of growth. Dispersing one\'92s efforts in different directions.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Lack of energy, restriction, repressed sexuality, a creative block.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 2 of Wands
\f0\b0 : Crossroads. Several options or ways to choose from. Every course offers benefits. A brief encounter with someone going his own way. Blocking an opponent\'92s line of advance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 3 of Wands
\f0\b0 : Direction. Moving forward after a moment of hesitation. Finding a middle path between two courses of action. Gaining an advantage by keeping neutrality between two conflicting sides.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 4 of Wands
\f0\b0 : Stalemate. A temporary stop in order to prepare for future advancement. Tensions at present, but good prospects in the long run. Making a move now is in nobody\'92s interest.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 5 of Wands
\f0\b0 : Overcoming. Getting over a weak opposition. Breakdown of an equilibrium. Focusing on the main objective. An initiative to make a winning move.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  With the covering part of the central wand below \'96 walking into a complex situation, losing one\'92s edge.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 6 of Wands
\f0\b0 : Collaboration. A strong alliance between two parties with different goals but common present interests. A taste for luxury made possible by favorable conditions.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  With the decorated flower at the bottom \'96 excessive pursuit of luxury. Need to break up an alliance of opponents.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 7 of Wands
\f0\b0 : Struggle. Someone putting up a fight against many opponents. Obstinacy, endurance, keeping one\'92s position in a conflict situation. A difficult combat with an uncertain outcome.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 8 of Wands
\f0\b0 : Regulation. It is possible to advance only by following the rules. Occupation with short-term goals while losing the long-term perspective. A roadblock.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 9 of Wands
\f0\b0 : Interruption. Difficulties and oppositions too hard to overcome. Giving up one\'92s projects to avoid conflict. Starting anew after a challenging period.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
10 of Wands
\f0\b0 : Loyalty. A partnership or an alliance endures hardships and succeeds in getting over them. Pure intentions and perseverance lead to success. Honoring one\'92s principles in spite of difficulties.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
Page of Wands
\f0\b0 : A creative potential which still needs processing. Keeping a safe distance from events and waiting for the right moment.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  A task too heavy for the querent\'92s strength. Difficulty in controlling desires and urges. Immature approach to sexuality.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
Knight of Wands
\f0\b0 : A change of direction, following one\'92s urges and passions. A temporary stop, but there is still energy and a desire to advance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Preoccupation with the satisfaction of one\'92s own desires. Problem in defining long-term goals. Submitting to temptation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 \
Queen of Wands
\f0\b0 : A feminine figure with a strong personality. Things connected with food and eating. Speaking softly while holding a big stick. A secure, well-defended position.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Intimidation, menace. Using sexuality as a means of control. Problems with a strong mother figure. Fear of feminine power.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 King of Wands
\f0\b0 : A mature attitude to urges and desires. Controlled creativity. Prodding oneself to make a move forward. Investing present assets in future projects.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Plans to move forward are frustrated by self-defeating acts. Hesitation, conflicts, tendency to make things too heavy and complex.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sa120\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Swords\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Ace of Swords
\f0\b0 : A planned initiative. Rational and logical thinking, sharpness of mind. A conclusive decision. Readiness to fight. Ambition, competitiveness. A victory with stable achievements.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Negative and unproductive thoughts. Misconceptions, delusions. Self-defeat. Injury.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 2 of Swords
\f0\b0 : Boundaries. Limits that protect and define something which is in development. Making full use of the present situation. Preparations for future advancement. A clear view encompassing the overall situation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 3 of Swords
\f0\b0 : Victory. Overcoming a weak opposition. Cutting through a quandary and going forward in a clear direction. A third party intervenes and wins over two weakened opponents.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  A failure, defeat from a weaker opponent. An unsuccessful attempt to make a decisive move.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 4 of Swords
\f0\b0 : Restriction. A limited space for development and maneuver. Trying to push against constraints. Potentials to grow once the present limitations become less solid.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Confinement and blocking, lack of motivation or energy to break out of a limited situation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 5 of Swords
\f0\b0 : Breakthrough. A forward thrust overcoming the existing limits. Keeping up spirits in a tight situation. Doing things in one\'92s own way.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  A failed initiative to change the situation. Stubbornness leading nowhere. Oppressing factors cannot be removed now.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 6 of Swords
\f0\b0 : Adaptation. Accepting limitations and adapting oneself to them. Respecting the present order. Compromising in order to make the best of the existing situation.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Resignation, surrender, giving up the ambition to change things for the better. Lack of fighting spirit.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 7 of Swords
\f0\b0 : Sharpness. A focused and determined attitude. Concentrating on a clear goal and doing what it takes to reach it. Winning a fight with the odds evenly balanced.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  A narrow and over-concentrated vision. Investing one\'92s efforts and resources in a lost cause.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 8 of Swords
\f0\b0 : Defenses. Putting up shields and blocks. Psychological defense mechanisms. A need to be in total control. A well-guarded treasure. Entering another\'92s domain with permission.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  similar.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 9 of Swords
\f0\b0 : Courage. Winning a fight against a superior force. Pure intentions. Putting imperfect means to good use.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Losing against a stronger opponent. Sloppiness, imperfect preparations for a challenge.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 10 of Swords
\f0\b0 : Exhaustion. A complex situation with many conflicting interests. A long battle without a clear outcome. Need to find an ally who will attack the problem from a different direction.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Immobility. Impossible to move now. Feeling attacked from different sides. A painful and humiliating defeat.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Page of Swords
\f0\b0 : Preparation for a future challenge. Looking for a compromise between reason and strong desires. Hesitating to use one\'92s power.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Confusion, negative and inhibiting thoughts, self-defeat. Sloppy use of one\'92s own tools may cause damage.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Knight of Swords
\f0\b0 : Energy and resources to advance, still looking for the right direction. Hovering above practical constraints. Determination and perseverance.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Trying to force one\'92s misguided views, insisting on a wrong direction. Losing touch with the ground.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Queen of Swords
\f0\b0 : A secure and protected position. Defending one\'92s territory. Preparation of something that shouldn\'92t be exposed yet.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  Defensiveness and rigidity. Suspicion and fixed ideas block advancement and preclude new connections.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 King of Swords
\f0\b0 : A determination to break from the past, a strong will. Feeling equipped to deal with uncertainty. Wisdom and intellectual maturity.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qj\partightenfactor0

\f4\i \cf0 Inverse:
\f0\i0  A divided heart, a need to cut off from something to which one is still attached. Over-calculating in a vain attempt to overcome uncertainty. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \page \
The Blank Card\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Besides the "logo" card with the deck details, the CBD Tarot de Marseille deck contains an extra "blank frame" card. It is not a part of the traditional deck, and you can experience and invent your own way of using it. Some suggestions:\
Separated from the deck, the blank card can be used as an object for concentration and focusing, both before and after the reading. \
Shuffled together with the deck, if the blank card appears in the reading it can signify that you are given a "carte blanche" - everything is open and possible. In this case you can also try to cover it with another card that you choose deliberately.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qc\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\
\
Dr. Yoav Ben-Dov\
www.cbdtarot.com\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\qc\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
c
\f0\fs24  2013 By Yoav Ben-Dov, some rights reserved\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf0 The text of this booklet is distributed under a Creative Commons license 
\f1\b CC BY-NC-SA 3.0
\f0\b0 , meaning that it is available for non-commercial use without need of further permission. \
For more details and exact conditions: http://creativecommons.org\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-2\sb60\qj\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \
}